---
title: 2022-08-30
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-09T00:22:40.135Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-09T00:21:24.487Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-08-30

Present: 

Carsten Bormann
Jane Coffin
Stephen Farrell
Mat Ford
Ari KerÃ¤nen
Mallory Knodel
Allison Mankin
Dave Oran
Colin Perkins
Eve Schooler
Brian Trammel
Amy Vezza

## Action Item Review

> DONE
> 
> * Dave Oran to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats for IRSG Review
> * Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.
> * Mallory Knodel to review draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf for IRSG Review
> 
> IN PROGRESS
> 
> * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> 
> NEW
> 
> * Brian Trammel and Jane Coffin to review draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines for IRSG Review.

* IRTF Document Status

 With RFC Editor
- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-26 - MISREF
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions-09 - RFC-EDITOR
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification-08 - RFC-EDITOR

Waiting for go ahead
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-11
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-10
Colin Perkins said that both documents needed some minor updates before being sent to the RFC Editor. 

In IESG Conflict Review
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve - Reviewer assigned (Paul Wouters)
- draft-irtf-qirg-principles - Reviewer to be assigned at the September 8 IESG Teleconference.

In IRSG Final Poll

- draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf - Poll deadline September 13. 

Brian Trammel asked if the review of the document needed to verify the cryptography, or if a basic review of the document for usefulness was preferred.

Colin Perkins said that the IRSG defers to the cryptography panel for verification, and basic review for usefulness was acceptable. 

Brian replied he would review the document with that in mind.

Stephen Farrell also agreed to review the document for usefulness.

- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo

The poll is ready to be closed. Colin Perkins indicated it was ready for the next step.

In IRSG Reviews

- draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping-06
  Reviewer: Chris Wood - update needed

- draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute-06
   Reviewer: Chris Wood - Update needed

Dave Oran said the two ICNRG documents are progressing together, and he is working on resolving some technical issues with the MDM team.

- draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats
  Reviewer: Dave Oran - minor update needed

Dave Oran said that he has not yet seen a response to his review. Colin Perkins confirmed the authors are working on the revision due sometime in September.

In IRTF Chair Review

 - draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines
    Waiting for Document Shepherd (Mallory)

Colin Perkins said the he was expecting a response to his feedback. He thought the examples used in the document may not meet the needs of the audience for the work and suggested they change them. 

Mallory Knodel agreed and said she asked the authors to expand on what was included. She also said she would like the IRSG reviews to be targeted at the issue to help clarify the text.

Colin requested volunteers from the IRSG to review the document.

Brian Trammel and Jane Coffin volunteered to review  draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines.

- draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys
   Waiting for Document Shepherd (Marie-Jose)

Colin Perkins said the document needs some minor updates, and the authors are working on it.

## Research Groups Status

Colin Perkins said the GAIA Research Group rechartered recently, and Leandro stepped down as co-chair. Kurtis Heimerl stepped up to co-chair. He said he was looking at new chairs for ICCRG. Colin also stated that there is the possibility of a new congestion control working group that may happen in the IETF.

## IRTF at IETF 114

Colin asked if there was anything to discuss that came out of the IETF 114 meeting.

Brian Trammell said the SCION folks showed up in PEARG and engaged with the group in a productive manner. PEARG will meet in London at IETF 115 to make progress on the SCION documents. 

Colin said he thought they had a decent set of documents.

Brian remarked they even have books. 

Dave Oran said they did an unintentional experiment at 114 with regards to having a joint meeting slot for two reseach groups. 

Stephen Farrell said that DPRIVE has done it a number of times with other WGs and it worked well. Dave said the handoff between RG chairs did not work well.

Colin said he tries to make sure the possible conflicts are mitigated as much as he can. He wondered if they need to add a question to the post-IETF survey for the summer meeting and the ANRW. He also asked if the IRSG had suggestions for the ANRW or the TPC chairs or members, or if anyone wanted to volunteer for the program committee for 2023, to let him know.

##    IRTF at IETF 115
        A reminder that session scheduling is now open (closes September 23, 2022)

Colin said that every agenda slot was filled for IETF 114, and to make sure the conflict lists for each group was updated to assist with the agenda creation. He also said the call for travel grant applications was posted, so please publicize that they are available for students and post-docs.

Allison Mankin noted that they got multiple applications because some students applied for both ANRW and IRTF Travel grants and that was confusing. She also asked if there was a need for sponsors.

Colin said yes.

## ANRP 2023
        Call for nominations will open in September
        Membership of the award committee

Colin told the IRSG that the ANRP for 2023 was accepting nominations. He said the deadline for the nominations would be just after IETF 115 in November. The announcement for ANRP winners would be made after the new year.
