---
title: 2023-04-25
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-30T15:38:46.396Z
tags: irsg, minutes
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-04-26T14:27:19.731Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 25 April 2023

INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the April 25, 2023 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

PRESENT

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Laurent Ciavaglia (NMRG Chair)
Spencer Dawkins (At-Large Member)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Ari KerÃ¤nen (T2TRG Chair)
Neils ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Amy Vezza (Secretariat)

REGRETS

Sofia Celi (HRPC Chair)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Mallory Knodel (HRPC Chair)
Allison Mankin (At-Large Member)
Marie-Jose Montpetit (COINRG and NWCRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Eve Schooler (COINRG Chair)
Chris Wood (PEARG Chair)

##  Action Items
>    * DONE
>      * Carsten Bormann to review draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv for IRSG Review
>      * Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures for IRSG Review
>      * Brian Trammell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448 for IRSG Review 
>      
>    * IN PROGRESS
>      * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
>      * Allison Mankin and Marie-Jose Montpetit to review draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge for IRSG Review 
>      
>    * NEW
>      * Brian Trammell and Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering for IRSG Review

## Document Status 
### In RFC Editor Queue

- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (AUTH48)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (RFC-EDITOR) 
- draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf (AUTH48)
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history (RFC-Editor)
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation (RFC-Editor) 
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys (RFC-EDITOR)
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf (MISREF)

### In IESG Conflict Review

- draft-ietf-panrg-path-properties 

The document is on the IESG Telechat agenda for discussion April 27 telechat. IESG reviewer is Zahed Sarker

### In IRSG Final Poll

- draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures 
  - (poll due date 2023-04-25; 2 no-ob)
- draft-irtf-pearg-censorship 
  - (Poll due 2023-04-28; 2 yes, 1 no-ob, 1 recuse)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448 
  - (poll due 2023-04-28; 1 yes, 1 no-ob) 

Please review the documents on IRSG Final Poll.

### In IRSG Reviews

 - draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping (waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering)
 - draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute (waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering)
 - draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
 
 Allison Mankin and Marie-Jose Montpetit will review the document.
 
 - draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering

Brian Trammell and Spencer Dawkins have volunteered to review the document.

### In IRTF Chair Review

- draft-irtf-cfrg-frost-12 

Colin Perkins has finished his review and is waiting on confirmation from the chairs and shepherd regarding a question about any possible IPR Disclosures from the authors.

- draft-irtf-hrpc-association-12 

Review is in progress.

### Waiting for Document Shepherd
- draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines 

Discussion is ongoing to address comments from reviewers.

## Post IETF 116 
  - Hot topics that came out of the meeting

Colin Perkins said that he was happy with how the first meetings for UFMRG and RASPRG went. Stephen Farrell said he thinks UFM could use some broader input to be successful. 

Spencer Dawkins said that ICCRG and the propsed working group CONGRESS were discussing the boundries between the groups. Spencer also said CONGRESS is looking to rename to something else.

  - Any other updates

Laurent Ciavaglia asked about the side meeting on sustainability and where green networking or sustainability efforts might fit into the IETF.

Colin Perkins said that the side meeting came out of an IAB workshop held in late 2022. Most of the discussion was on understanding the metrics of sustainability. Colin also said he was open to proposals but had not yet received any. And that NMRG or other research groups may take on some of the possible work.

Laurent said NMRG has a draft on green networking.

Colin said that a lot of the disucssion was around getting something going in the IETF and having the IRTF fill in gaps where appropriate. 

The discussion of the DINRG with the IAB went well, there was a small number of dissenters on the process issues, but not for the research group as a whole.


## ANRW for 2023 
   - Program Committee Chairs/Program committee

The Program Committee has been assembled for the ANRW. 

   - Any other ANRW updates (travel grants, etc)

Colin Perkins said the Call for Papers for the ANRW is available, and he would like the IRSG to encourage submissions to the workshop. He also indicated there is ample travel grant funds and to encourage researchers to apply.

## Research Groups Updates
  - RECHARTER progress for HRPC
 This item was moved to the agenda for May 30, 2023
 
 - Other RG News
 NONE
 
## Discussion Topic: RG Document Reviews - Getting more feedback faster

Carsten Bormann started a discussion on ways to get feedback on RG documents in a more timely manner. He stated some reviews are done when the document is adopted, but by the time it makes it through the process it may be a very different document and getting reviews at a later point in the process has been difficult. 

Laurent Ciavaglia said that NMRG has looked outside the research group to ask people who are active in the area to review the documents. He said they try not to weigh the process down with too much formality.

Carsten said that is a good strategy. He also said he would like to have people follow through from document adoption to draft completion. The same people who agreed the document should be adopted my not be the same people who are there when it is shipped to the RFC Editor. 

Colin Perkins brought up that there is a crypto panel which gives a pool of reviewers for CFRG. The panel also gives members a label to put on their CV.

Laurent suggested chairs look at similar communities outside of the IRTF/IETF. He said NMRG works with an IEEE group that has been around a long time, and it has been successful. Some of their RFCs become references for the other groups papers and it improves the quality of both groups work.

Colin agreed talking to people doing similar work is a good idea.

Carsten agreed. He asked for any other tips and tricks. Carsten agreed to continue the discussion on the mailing list.

## Reminder: IETF 117 - Session Requests opened on April 24, and IETF meeting registration is expected to open the week of May 1.

Amy Vezza reminded the group that the session requests for IETF 117 were open, and meeting registration will open the week of May 1.