---
title: 2023-08-29
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-08-30T15:43:53.193Z
tags: irsg, minutes
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-08-30T14:14:56.386Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2023-08-29

DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the August 29, 2023 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------
## 1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

PRESENT

Jenny Bui (Secretariat)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Jonathan Hoyland (UFMRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (DINRG and ICNRG Chair)
Allison Mankin (At-Large Member)
Neils ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

## Current IRSG Action Items
**DONE**
** Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.

**IN PROGRESS**

** Sof√≠a Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds.


**NEW**

** Colin Perkins to submit the IRTF Code of Conduct as an Internet-Draft
** Mallory Knodel and Marie-Jose Montpetit will review draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases for IRSG Review

## IRTF Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
   - draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties 
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping 
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf Holding for references
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute IANA
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448
   - draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
### In IESG Conflict Review
   - NONE
### In IRSG Final Poll
 - NONE
### In IRSG Review
  - draft-irtf-cfrg-frost 
  Review complete. Revised I-D Needed.
   - draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases 
  Mallory Knodel and Marie-Jose Montpetit will review the document for IRSG Review
### In IRTF Chair Review
  - draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv 
  Waiting on revision.
  - draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering 
  This document is ready for IESG review
  - draft-irtf-hrpc-association - 
  Revised ID needed - Waiting for Document Shepherd
  - draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge 
  Ready for next steps
  
### Waiting for Document Shepherd 
  - draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines
  Colin Perkins said the authors are working on addressing the comments from the final poll.

## Post IETF 117

Colin Perkins said the ANRW '23 had a number of good presentations. He also said that unfortunately, one of the ANRP winners was unable to stay to present his work, so his talk will be rescheduled for the Prague meeting. He also said there was positive feedback from the Cory Doctorow presentation in DINRG.

Allison Mankin asked if there was any followup work to do coming out of Cory's presentation.

Dirk Kutscher said that his work was already published online, but there may be some followup discussion for the DINRG. He expects to continue the discussion at IETF 118.

Lixia Zhang said she and Dirk are discussion putting together a short article about the discussions.

Colin said that the whole DINRG session from 117 was worth watching, that all the presentations were good.

Lixia added that she had attended a law school reception at an institute for technology and law. They actively promote cross-collaboration. The challenges are not just technological anymore.

## IETF 118 Session Requests are Open

Amy Vezza reminded the IRSG session requests are open for IETF 118, and they will close on September 22. 

Lixia Zhang asked when the agenda would be known for 118.

Amy said the preliminary agenda will be publlished on October 6, and the final will be published on October 13. 

Colin Perkins added that the Friday of the meeting will be a full day, ending at 17:00 (CET, UTC +1).

## ANRW for 2024

Colin Perkins said the planning for the workshop will start soon; the chairs for ANRW '24 are Ignacio Castro and Simone Ferlin. He said if any IRSG were willing to be on the program committee to review papers, please let them know. 

Colin also said that the ANRW is looking at making some administrative changes to how the workshop is handled - by moving from co-sponsored by ACM SIGCOMM to being in cooperation with ACM SIGCOMM. This change should not affect the workshop, but if anyone has any reason this change should not happen to speak to Colin.

## NWCRG has been concluded

Amy Vezza told thhe group the NWCRG research group has been successfully concluded.

## Research Group Updates
### Recharter Progress for HRPC

Colin Perkins said the rechartering effort for HRPC is nearly complete. The recharter is on the agenda for the IAB to approve in an upcoming IAB teleconference. He said if anyone had any final comments to let the chairs know soon.

### UFMRG Tutorial at IETF 118

Amy Vezza said the UFMRG Chairs have been in contact with the Secretariat with regards to the needs of holding a tutorial on Sunday afternoon at IETF 118. 

Stephen Farrell said he has a teleconference scheduled to discuss logisitics on what will be presented. He said the tutorial will run from noon to 4pm at IETF 118.

Jonathan Hoyland said they know likely topics for the tutorial, and two specific technologies were very likely to be covered. He is hoping someone will step forward to talk about a third [Tamarin, ProVerif, Coq].

Stephen mentioned this will not be a competition. They are looking for two hours of presentation,followed by two hours of using the technologies discussed. He also said he hoped this could be a continuing activity for future IETF meetings.

Colin Perkins agreed it should be a semi-regular session.

Stephen asked if anyone was good at putting together surveys to evaluate how useful the tutoral was for participants he would like to have a conversation.

## ANRP for 2024

Colin Perkins said the planing for ANRP for 2024 has begun, and the call for nominations would be sent in September. If any of the IRSG would like to be on the award committee, please contact Colin.

## IRTF Code of Conduct

Colin Perkins said he had sent out the draft text for the IRTF Code of Conduct (CoC) and had received many good comments.

Brian Trammell said that he thought the goal for the CoC is ethics and integrity, and the text is mostly okay. He wasn't sure the self-plagiarism point worked for the IRTF, and could be removed.

Colin agreed that authors should be able to take their academic papers and resubmit as an IRTF Internet-Draft.

Jonathan Hoyland said he did not understand the issue. People should be able to link to their original work.

Allison Mankin asked if this caused problems for authors. 

Colin said that it might. He said expanding on the point in the CoC may help.

Allison added the problem sounded complex. The IRTF is different from a lot of other research spaces.

Colin said the text should be clarified. Authors and researchers should be aware of differing publications' rules. He said the participation section of the CoC seemed odd to many who reviewed it, and his goal was to highlight that they work to make the meetings accessible. He noted the anti-harrassment section was a little US-centric. 

Jonathan Hoyland asked if the IETF CoC also applied.

Colin answered that the same principals apply, but the goals for the IRTF CoC are different from the IETF CoC. The IETF Ombudsteam were available for the IRTF, and he added their guidelines RFC could use some edits to include the IRTF. He said that IETF Legal will review the IRTF CoC before it is published. 

Stephen Farrell asked about banning people from mailing lists and meetings.

Colin said the IRTF didn't have the same issues with banning people who acted in bad faith, and the RG Chairs could ban such people from mailing lists.

Stephen said making sure that was written down for chairs to refer to would be helpful.

Colin agreed that having guidelines on what would ban someone from participating on a mailing list or in-person attendance at a meeting would be useful. He said he thought Lars [Eggert] was working on a document on this subject and the IRTF may want to opt-in to be included.

Action Item: Colin Perkins to submit the IRTF Code of Conduct as an Internet-Draft.
















