---
title: IRSG Teleconference February 27, 2024
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-02-28T18:30:15.358Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-02-28T18:30:15.358Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference February 27, 2024
 
## Attendance 
Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Jenny Bui (IETF Secretariat)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Spencer Dawkins (At-Large Member)
Reese Enghardt (ICCRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Melinda Shore (At-Large Member)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
## Bash the agenda

## Approval of the minutes
The minutes of the January 30, 2024 IRSG Teleconference were approved. 


## Administrivia

## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
#### IN PROGRESS:
o Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds 
#### NEW: 

## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue
o draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines
o draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases
o draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering
o draft-irtf-cfrg-frost
o draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute
### In IRSG Final Poll
 NONE
### In IESG Conflict Review
NONE
### In IRSG Reviews
 NONE
### In IRTF Chair Review
o draft-irtf-hrpc-association
o draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve

## Discussion Topics

#### IETF 119
Colin is interested to know if there are going to be any hot topics or issues to be aware of going into the meeting and checking to see who will be attending, 

Brian responds that PANRG will not be meeting in Brisbane, but will possibly do an interim between Brisbane and San Francisco which will be easier to do from a timezone stand point.  

Colin asked who will be attending in Brisbane. 

Carsten will be in Brisbane. 

Reese will also be in Brisbane. 

Dave responds that he will not be there. 

Brian will also not be in Brisbane. 

Spencer will not be attending in person. 

Melinda will not be in Brisbane. 

The current registration number is 579 onsite attendees. 

#### Code of Conduct
Colin responds that there is not too much to report here, but there will be minor updates that will be done before the draft deadline to address the comments from Jay. The other items that were talked about in December will be circled back to after Brisbane. 

#### Bias Workshop
Colin mentions that Mallory had asked for agenda time to talk about a potential censorship research group for a joint interim for PEARG, GAIA, MAPRG, and HRPC following the discussion from the Bias Workshop about a month ago. Mallory did not attend this meeting, so Colin continues talking about the Bias Workshop which looked at the barriers to Internet access and what could be done in terms of community networks, digital divide, and censorship related topics. 

With discussions on the mailing lists and in the workshop, it indicated that people were interested in potentially doing some more work on censorship. One thing that was suggested was to look at some of the existing research groups and what they’re doing in the space of understanding, measuring, and monitoring and seeing what was going on with censorship.
Then we can think about how we can coordinate that work, and how the groups could mutually support each other going forward while thinking about whether there was actually enough work and enough interest to spin up a new sort of censorship. 

The proposal is to hold a joint meeting between GAIA, PEARG, MAPRG, and HRPC between Brisbane and Vancouer and possibly in Vancouver to gauge interest in this topic. In the meeting, they’ll look at what’s been done in the past in those groups and talk about whether there’s an interest in a new research group that sort of fits in that area or if it’s something that just needs a bit of coordination within those existing groups. 

Colin then asks if anyone has any options on whether a censorship group makes sense. 
Brian replies that he does not have a strong opinion on whether it makes sense but he suspects that he would after the workshop. Brian thinks that the workshop sounds like a good idea. 

Brian then asks if one chair of each research group is represented in the planning for the interim? 

Colin responds yes, Mallory is pushing this. Curtis who has been involved from GAIA, Sarah from PEARG, and Mirja from MAPRG. Most of the censorship measurement talks have been ANRP winners. 

Colin continues by saying that his only concern here is just figuring out how to present it and whether we want to be chartering a censorship or convention research group or whether we want to be trying to phrase it slightly less political to do something similar. 

Brian says that this slightly feels like an IRTF BoF and brought up if it makes sense to engage ISOC for advice? 

Colin responds that potentially, yes. 

Brian then says that that might be the way to keep this from going interestingly sideways. 

Dave chimes in and says one of things that might be important to discuss is what exact part of the research community do you want to pull in? Because there’s the purely protocol oriented technical side of it and then there’s rings of things around that are being published around censorship on the internet which may or may not have the right kind of focus for what the IETF and IRTF are competent to do. 

Colin agrees and says that this could be extremely broad and thinks we want to be a little careful about how to scope it. 

Igancio mentions that there’s probably a risk for a group like that to becoming encryption yes versus encryption no debates. 

Colin responds that this could offer and connect the technical and non technical people. However, we do not want any debate as it would not be productive. 

Brian is strongly in favor of an interim workshop. 

#### HRPC Rechartering (on hold)
Colin mentions that this item is still on hold and he will talk to Mallory in person. 

#### IRSG Dinner at 119 — restaurant recommendations from Secretariat 
(https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A1jF6VrFWrf8hWifGtWEC0sjNme0BlLDpdU9oybQfmE/edit?usp=sharing) 

The Secretariat will proceed with booking Lennons for the IRSG dinner at 7:30/7:45pm on Wednesday after the plenary. 