---
title: IRSG Teleconference February 25, 2025
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-02-27T14:08:41.039Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-02-26T19:02:56.525Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference February 25, 2025

## Administrivia
### Attendance 

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Jenny Bui (IETF Secretariat)
Laurent Ciavaglia (NMRG Chair)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Jerome Francois (NMRG Chair)
Ari Keränen (T2TRG Chair)
Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (DINRG Chair)
Allison Mankin (PEARG Chair was:At-Large Member)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Ali Rezaki (SUSTAIN Chair)
Eve Schooler (COINRG/SUSTAIN Chair)
Michael Welzl (SUSTAIN Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

### Bash the agenda 

Colin mentioned he added a few items. 



### Approval of past telechat minutes

The IRSG has approved the January 28, 2025 minutes.

Colin mentioned to review through past minutes and summarize instead of having detailed minutes.
## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
#### IN PROGRESS:
#### NEW: 

Colin brought up Melinda's document shepherd needing to be moved to the Wiki. 

Jenny responded that that has been done. 

## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat
- draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct
- draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases
- draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque
- draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-properties

Colin mentions that most things are in the RFC Editor queue, but the only thing that hasn’t been wrapped up is the NMRG-Green-PS document. The IESG gave a do not publish because the document was treated more like a discuss than a conflict review but that seems to be resolved now. The document will need to cycle back through the IRSG after the fixes. 

Laurent chimes in to say that it all seems straightforward and clear, but asked if it will need to go through the whole review process again.
Colin responds that the IRSG needs to look at it but doesn’t think it will need to go through the full in depth review and ballots since it has already been done. It will have to go through a new IESG conflict review, but that’s usually a straightforward process. 

### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
None
### In IRTF Chair Review 
None
## Discussion Topics
- Prep for IETF 122 

Colin mentions about the ANRP talks that will happen in Bangkok. The first one is from Changjie Wang who will give a talk about  NetConfEval: Can LLMs Facilitate Network Configuration, and the other one is Henry Birge-Lee  for his work on secure collaborative path control in BGP.  Colin also mentions that the IAB open meeting on WSIS +20  is about the Internet Governance Forum and how Internet Governance happens, it’s mostly to give the community information about what’s happening and seek some input on that. The last thing Colin mentions is Sustainability will have their first meeting. 

Ali gave some details about the topics that Sustain will cover during IETF 122.  The chairs will do an introductory presentation explaining their vision for the Research Group and some priority areas that they want to focus on. 

Eve added there will be an invited talk given by Suresh and Jari who started the e-impact workshop, who will talk about an evolving set of discussions on architecture, sustainability architecture, network architecture. There will also be another talk about the relevance to the broader communities, accounting efforts for Carbon footprint accounting. 

Ali added that Houda Chihi will also be giving a talk. 

Colin adds that she is one of the travel grant awardees. 

Allison asks if the IRSG makes plans so that the grantees have somebody looking after them. 

Colin responds that he doesn’t know if there’s anything specific but he tries to make an effort to talk to them during the welcome reception. 

Allison adds that it might be a good idea to make sure they know about the New Participants program. 

Colin brings up that there’s a lot more going on in the New Participants program this year, they have a full Sunday tutorial. 

Mirja responds that the Secretariat and LLC have been in charge of that. 

Eve asks if the IRSG is responsible for the travel grant assignment. 

Colin responds that there is a subgroup of the IRSg that approves the travel grant applications, and asks Eve if she would like to be a part of it. 

Eve agrees to join the Travel Grant Selection committee. 

Colin adds that Jenny does a good job at saying hello to everyone and pointing them to the right directions. 

Jenny adds that she also checks in on the travel grantees leading up to the meeting via email. She will also send them information about the New Participants Sunday tutorials. 

Allison asks if it’s possible for individuals to fund the travel grant program? 

Colin responds that he is sure we can find a way. 

Colin asks if there’s anything else for the Bangkok meeting? 

Dirk reminds the group to sign up for the IRSG dinner. 

Ali asks how does he do that? 

Colin responds there’s a link in the Wiki. 

Jenny also adds a link to the Webex chat. 


- Travel grants for IETF 123

Colin mentioned that the applications are now open, and will remain open until the last Friday of the IETF meeting in Bangkok. 

Jenny added that we’ve already received one application. 

Eve asks about visa requirements for the EU 

Colin responds that he’s not sure if it has arrived yet. There’s some sort of electronic travel authorization thing coming, but doesn’t think it has arrived. 

- ANRW

Colin adds that this is more of a reminder to be on the look for the call for papers when it goes out in the next couple of days and to please distribute it to your research groups and encourage anyone you know to submit their papers. 

Eve asks about Sustain being marked as proposed in the agenda which might make it difficult for people to find. 

Colin responds that it will be a proposed research group for the next year then the IAB and IRTF  Chair will meet to decide if the group should continue to meet and get turned into a full Research Group. 

- IRTF Chair transition
- IRSG At-large members

Colin talks about how he will be stepping down in Bangkok, and Dirk will be stepping in. However, there isn’t any exact policy of when the transition happens so it will be a rolling transition in practice during the week. The at-large members of the IRSG term ends when the IRTF Chair term ends. Dirk will need to decide who he wishes to appoint as the new set of at-large members. 

Allison thanks Colin for his work success in getting good support for IRSG in tooling and in general. 

Colin talks about how there has been a lot of effort spent on moving all the infrastructure off the physical servers in AMS and into the cloud.  
- IRSG Dinner 
    - Doodle poll: https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/e9GW3KPb
    -  Dress Code Policy: Terrace Rim Naam at Mandarin Oriental, Bangkok follows a smart-casual dress code. For gentlemen, this involves refraining from flip-flops, shorts, sleeveless shirts, or vests, and opting for long trousers and closed shoes, including children. For ladies, we appreciate elegant attire and proper footwear, excluding flip-flops.

Jenny reminded the group about filling out the Doodle poll, and that there is a dress code. 

Colin asked if the dinner is still on Wednesday

Jenny said that is currently the plan since ISOC hasn’t decided on when they will be doing their reception, but will send an email if the date changes. 


## AOB
- IRSG Telechat in March 3/25

Jenny mentioned to the group that we will be skipping the March telechat since it lands on the Tuesday right after the IETF meeting. 

Colin mentions about the webinar for Lacnic that Greg Wood helped put together to talk about the IRTF which is happening on Friday. Colin also talked about a couple of things that he needs to  tidy up the COI policy hopefully before the meeting. 

