---
title: Retreat Information
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-11-29T23:23:14.045Z
tags: iesg, leadership
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-08-24T13:35:55.095Z
---

# IESG/IAB Joint Retreat Information
##  IESG Retreat for Spring 2023 

### Dates 

* 2023-05-08 to 2023-05-12

### Remote Participation 

TBD



### Location 

Seattle, WA, USA

Monday-Thursday: F5 Tower, 801 5th Ave, Seattle, WA 98104 (Hendrix Room - 47th Floor)

Friday: [Hotel Theodore - Carlson Room, 1531 7th Ave, Seattle, WA 98101](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Hotel+Theodore/@47.6124158,-122.3369388,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m9!3m8!1s0x54906ab4d91fbf0f:0xf54ae5df4f41f252!5m2!4m1!1i2!8m2!3d47.6124158!4d-122.3343585!16s%2Fg%2F1hc7xqy91) 

### Covid Information 

Free test and masks will be provided. Daily testing and masks are recommended.


### Agenda 

#### Monday, May 8, 2023 IESG Only

**9:00 Start**

* Post-pandemic SWOT/PEST analysis and compare to the last one of 2019 (Éric, 90 min)
-> potentially 30 minutes for break-outs...?


**10:30 - 11:00 Coffe Break**

* Areamandering: Rearranging the areas (Martin, 60 min)
	* Attempt to balance (and maybe reduce?) the AD workloads across different areas. Opportunity to redraw boundaries around cohesive areas of work, leading to easier AD recruitment.

**12:30 - 13:30 Lunch**

* Change voting requirements for Stds Track documents (Rob, 90 min)
	* Both Stds track and Info docs require IETF consensus, but have differnet IESG ballot requirements.  My question is whether we should consider relaxing the ballot rules for Stds Track docs to match the rules for Informational, or the reverse?
	* This may also lead to a reduction in AD workload, and increase the AD candidate pool.

**15:00 - 15:30 Coffee break**


* Letters of invitation for interim meetings (Martin, 30 min)

* The future of Technology Deep Dives (Warren, 20 min)
	* Warren is currently driving the TDD series, but it doesn't have an official sponsor. Should this be an IESG program?

* Operator Outreach (Warren, 10 min)
	* Are all y'all willing to provide a 2 - 3 sentence summary of highlights of work in your area?

* Parking lot
	* Area shopping (Andrew, 30 min)
  * Collecting more diversity statistics (Rob, 15 mins)
  * Adding a third ART AD (Murray, 10 mins)
  * 360 feedback for WG chairs (Lars)
  * Response to Apple/Google I-D submission (Lars)
  * (re)charter discussion (Paul)
  * tips and tricks for (new) ADs (added by Mirja)
  * Can we change our balloting requirements to not count people who are on leave as part of determining the required 2/3? (John)


**17:00 end**


#### Tuesday, May 9, 2023 IESG Only

**9:00 Start**

* Review year-by-year meeting stats (Alexa/Greg, 45 min)


* IPR disclosures: do we have countermeasures against spurious/late disclosures? (Martin, 45 min)
 -> Brad will join, confirmed by Jay

**10:30- 11:00 Coffee**

* Side meeting discussion (Rob, 90 min)
	* First, Discuss audio problems with remote-attendence to side-meetings, should/can we do more here (some sort of Meetecho support)? 
	* Also do we need approval for side meetings?
	* Also, how to prevent WGs from using side meetings for WG business?

**12:30-13:30 Lunch**

* Is an update to IESG statement on "Support Documents in IETF Working Groups" needed? (Lars, 15-30 min) 
	* See https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/statements/support-documents/

* Declaration of paricipant affiliation (e.g., for consultants) (Rob, 30 min)
	* Soemtimes I see participants change their position to strongly align with those of a particular company, and yet they just indicating their affiliation as a consultant.  Does this end up skewing/manipulating the standards process?  If someone is be paid by a company to help push a draft or technology then should that be declared, even if they are a consultant?


**15:00 Departure for University of Washington Visit**
The plan is that us (some of IESG and IAB) and the UW folks would each present some lightning talks of "interesting things", and we'd have a bit of discussion on each. Topics from our side:
* Brief IETF intro (Lars)
* Jiankang
* Éric
* Zahed
* Rob
* Paul
* Mirja (recap of the e-impact IAB workshop)
* Dhruv
* Qin
* Martin (could talk about the Congestion Control working group, if people are interested)
* Murray (things to see and do in French Polynesia)
* John

**Please just add your name above w/o a lightning talk topic if you plan on joining, so we know who is coming!**

#### Wednesday, May 10, 2023 IESG and IAB Joint Meeting

**9:00 Start**

* e-impact IAB program or BoF; report from side meeting (Suresh, 45 min)
-> Jari, Brian Trammell, and Carlos will join

* Tools & LLC update (Jay, 45 min) 


**10:30 - 11:00 Coffee**

* Ballot process and IETF consensus for Joint Discussion (David, 60 min)
  * How do handle potentially out-of-charter documents during IESG review
  * Guidelines for personal opinions in IESG ballots
  
*  Discussion about publically announce author/design-team meetings vs interims  (Wes, 30 min)

**12:30 - 13:30 Lunch**

* What is the next step of YANG Catalog? Service Oriented YANG Pilot Project (Qin, 50 min)
	* The YANG Catalog provides a place where vendors and operators can share and find the data models that make configuring and operating networks easier, is that all? What is the next step of YANG catalog? How to make good use of these models for automated service management, what is the Challenging and Issues of Implementing YANG? 

* NomCom process (Mirja, 20 min)
	* Review the nomcom process and identify things to improve (briefly discussed by the IAB in exceuative session on Feb 22, and the week before by IESG)
  
* Can we improve directorate reviews to make them less combative (David, 20 min)

**15:00 - 15:30 Coffee**

* Discussion on the outreach activities (Dhruv, 60 min) [Slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YJ9NX-BRUDBJ1_Fnfsks7uSyf1OkOREyZAcGZ0nv1Ts/edit?usp=sharing)
	* Discussion on various outreach activities and how the coordination function can be improved
	* This may include a discussion about organization of eodir (comment by Mirja)

* IGF session (Mirja/Lars, 30 min)

* RIPE86 presentation slides review (Mirja, 30 min)


**17:30 group photo & end**

**19:00 Joint dinner**

The Capital Grille 
1301 4th Ave 
Seattle, WA 98101
https://www.thecapitalgrille.com/locations/wa/seattle/seattle/8030

#### Thursday, IAB only 

**9.00 Start**

* Policy engagement venue? (Mirja) (45 mins)
	* Based on the discussion in gendispatch, we should figure if there is further work for the IAB.
  * Mnot and Alissa to join

* Surevy results review (Mirja, 45 mins)

**10:30-11:00 Coffee**

* Workshop in ID management (Cullen, 45 min)

* New programs (Tommy, 45 min)


**12:30-13:30 Lunch**

* Metaverse Standards Forum (Qin) (30 mins)

* IAB Document Review 

* Break-out sessions
	* IGF
  * IAB vision document
  * sender-pays
  * limited domains
  * identity management


**15:00 - 15:30 Coffee**

* Report from break-out sessions

**17:00 end**



#### Friday, IAB only

**9:00 Start**

* Status of new IAB website and wiki (Cindy, 30 min)

* The life of the IAB chair (Mirja, 30 mins)


**10:30-11:00 Coffee**

* New workshop topics
	* IAB workshop to discuss Barriers to Internet Access and Services (BIAS)

* IAB group meeting scheudling and transparency of IAB groups/liaison work (Mirja, 30 mins)

* Possible follow up from survey: Discussion/review of processes, e.g. wg charter review process, BoF sheperding, workshops orga, programs/groups, liaison positions, etc. (Mirja, ? min)

**12:30-13:00 Lunch**

* Parking lot

**15:00 Coffee & end**


### Proposed Additional Meeting Topics
Feel free to suggest additonal topics here.

The IESG chair and IAB chair will review this list short before the retreat and try assign the topics to a slot if there is still space on the agenda.


* List of (security) research topics (Chris, 20 min) -> no progress yet; move to later

### RSVP

| Name        | Arrival    | Departure  | Dinner 2023-05-10? | Hotel |
| :---        |   :----:   |    :----:  | :----:  |:----: |
| Cindy M     |   |  |      | |
| Liz F       |  |  |      | |





