---
title: MPLS Open DT meeting 2023-04-20
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-04-19T15:08:56.983Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-04-19T15:08:56.983Z
---

# MPLS Open DT Meeting 2023-04-13

## Agenda
1. Action Items
    Tarek
    
1. Discussion on early allocating the MNA label
    Chairs, All,
    We did not conclude last week.
    The discussion focus on the format of the 2nd LSE following the MNA Label. 
    There seem to be consensus that (at least to a certain extent) the format of the 2nd LSE will be locked by the early allocation of an MNA Label.
    There is some disageemtent can be modified in the 2nd LSE, could the a new opcode be added; can the reserved bits be set?
    Is a version number necessary? Even if is not necessary is it beneficial?
    Is it possible just say the OpCodes and Reserved bits, needs to be adequately set when sending and understood when received, otherwise the packet must be dropped.
    There are methods to differentiate e.g. between OpCodes that can be transferred and OpCodes that will cause the packet to be dropped.
   
1. Discussion on closing the MPLS Open DT
    Chairs
    There is a poll ongoing, will be open for two weeks.
    
    There seem to be three opinions:
    - keeping the MPLS Open DT helps us keep the speed in producing the MNA standards
    - we are past the point where the design team is necessary, we can go back to do the MNA work according the normal working group procedures
    - it is desirable to go back to go back to normal working group procedures, however:
    -- there are things that we should achieve before doing this, e.g. understand if PSD is needed, criteria for allocation of the MNA label, etc.
    - it has als been pointed out that the chair can can call Open DT meetings if this is found necessary, e.g. if authors/editors want to dicuss "their" documents
    
1. The situation on the PSD and potential pending decision
    - the consensus call on poll 1, May 30, 2022 said:
    
    
      The Framework document must be solution independent and say:

      a packet may carry Ancillary Data using one or both of the following methods:

       (1) in-stack, and
       (2) post-stack.
       
There is still no decision to change that, even if there are opinions strong enough motovsting that we revisit this question.

It should be noted that the result of the poll on draft-song does not say that we don't want to entertain PSD, just that we don't want to progress the version on PSD described in draft-song.

The discussion in this meeting is not primarily to decide on PSD or no PSD, but to see if we can agree on how to discuss.
    
5. AOB

You can find the meeting in vite at:

<https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/mpls/FDFz2DhEpYsJguib4VCgfwGmZIU/>